hi there this is Maggie Wheatley and I
am the creator and owner of Maggie's
Angels I do pet portraits and do dogs
cats and horses and whatever pet you
have today I'm going to be showing you
the steps my steps of what it takes to
do one of these porch now I'm working on
a 12 by 12 canvas painting of a Yorkie
named Sophie the owner brought me this
photograph right here of Sophie when she
was 8 months old and when they came to
my studio I did a couple more shots of
Sophie because she looks just a little
bit different her little ears are up and
I wanted to make sure that we captured
her and how she looks today that that
was what the owner wanted to do here's
my canvas I normally work on 8 by 8 and
this is a 12 by 12 but I'm going to be
doing so I take a wood canvas and I sand
it down and I did 3 layers of gesso on
all sides even on the on the edges and
then on the back I usually put a black
flat paint just to see like even further
since it's all wood about this what I
have under here this you could find at
any hardware store and what's neat about
it is that it keeps the canvas or
whatever you're working on from slipping
I usually just have a little box from
this one being a mare getting a bright
one and so just I can't elevate the
painting since I worked so close my next
step would be after I have everything
set up I do three drawings from the
photographs and here's Sophie's first
drawing here's a second sketch
and the owner
I sent the owner that sketches and or
they come to the studio to see them for
this particular owner they have to drive
quite a distance so they I send them
through emails and here's my Sophie here
this this is the final drawing that we
chose and they loved it and we did some
adjustments we just put one bow instead
of two we did a little blinged out
necklace and we kind of just hit the
eyes a little bit more so she was
sweeter basically what we're going to be
working on today how I transfer it left
fatten some questions on what I use this
is vellum or tracing paper and basically
what I do is I just take this is the
side I just take a 6b or a 4b pencil and
I just literally just go over and over
and over again until it's completely
covered now you can see that I've used
this over and over again I've even
ripped it because I've done it so many
times you can see the line when it
starts fading out I do it again I just
be using the same tape now I just take a
pencil or a pen maybe even a different
color and you can just trace over the
drawing being real accurate about it and
get it back on the canvas so basically
that's how it starts
now here's my palette I picked the
colors that this dog is going to have I
used a small amount this is a fabulous
palette it really is
it's called masterson and what's so
great about it is since I paint in
acrylics these paints dry very quickly
and um this particular palette has a
sponge underneath this paper is special
and you need to soak it into warm water
and what it will do is it'll maintain
all your acrylics wet for up to two
weeks you can see mine is very old I've
been using it for the last six years
maybe and what is neat about it is like
you you clean the sponge I put a little
bit of ammonia in there when I wash it
so it kills what a bacteria happens it
has a nice lid which mine doesn't fit
anymore from all the usage
and then I have my little water balls
and all of the different brushes and
working on wood also eats up your
brushes all right so right now I'm going
to put my timer on this camera records
one second every 30 seconds and that's
why you see my time-lapse videos being
so fast I wish I could pay you that fast
but I just can't you put be nice so
enjoy and I hope you can learn if you
have any questions just email me go to
Maggie's angels calm
you